## How to setup and run the tests?

Perform the following commands in order in the terminal:

1. `gem install rspec`

2. `bundle`

3. `rspec`

## Tech
Ruby, Capybara, RSpec

Ruby gems: selenium-webdriver, capybacra, httparty and json

I intentionally didn't use **cucumber**. It would be a better choice since it could lead to more efficient test generation and execution. However, it was not included in the tech stack provided in the problem description. For future improvements, I suggest it is added to the tech stack.


## Tests
I implemented the 3 requested test cases together with an extra test case for the '**Drag and Drop**' which seemed interesting. I had to do a bit of research beforehand though.

### Test 1 - Red Button Label
When running the tests, this test throws an error every once in a while meaning the label doesn't change after the click. This is not a test defect! In fact, the label changes randomly between a finite set of values, and sometimes, the label does not change (i.e. replaced by the same label) when the button is clicked.

### Test 2 - Loading Element
I implemented a polling method to wait for loading completion. In this method, a timer is set to `timer = 3`. Since I set the default waiting time to `config.default_max_wait_time = 10` in *spec_helper.rb*, this gives the loading task a good `3 * 10 = 30 seconds` to complete. The polling method is written independantly so that, if needed, it can be used in other parts of the project without any alteration or duplication.

### Test 3 - Post Request
For verification I decided to check for a valid 'Id' in the response. I believe this a good and yet enough test since the Id must be generated by the database itself. So, if for some reason the post request bounces back without an Id it can be easily detected and dealt with. Other choices such as name, salary and age or even a combination of them cannot provide such an assurance.

### Test 4 - Drag and Drop
In order to automate the drag and drop functionality I used capybara's `drag_to` method. I tested both columns' labels to confirm that the dragged and dropped columns actually switch places. This is fairly obvious in this case since there are only 2 draggable elements available. In cases where there are more draggable elements on the page, it makes more sense to swap any 2 by dragging one to another (e.g. jigsaw puzzles). However, if the drag and drop action leads to a change in the order of the draggable elemens (e.g. Trello board), then testing the match between the dragged element and the current element at the dropped position would suffice.

## Public Projects

Please have a look at my GitHub repositories
[here](https://github.com/alijy?tab=repositories).
